= Introduction =

This page contains the description of the problem


= Problem description=

Consider a single large text file F and a system that consists of N computer 
nodes. Split the file F into M fragments F_1, F_2, … , F_M and place them at various 
nodes of the system. Place each fragment at one or more nodes (that means that you 
should replicate some of the fragments). The fragments may not all have the same 
size. 
Perform the following computational tasks: 
 
1. Find the longest word in F and store it at all the nodes. [100 Points] 
2. For specific word(s) find in which nodes this/those word(s) is/are stored. Start this task at node 1, with the user specifying the word(s). [150 Points] 
3. Find the most frequent word in the text file F and store it at node 1. [200 Points] 
4. Update the contents of fragment i at each node that may have a copy of it. 

The update originates at node 1, with the user specifying the fragment 
number. [100 Points]-(Optional for extra credits) 
 
 In doing these computations, our users are willing to trade-off accuracy for latency and communication costs. The highest accuracy for given latency and 
communication costs is highly desired. 
 
===Expectations:=== 
 Design and develop a distributed application that performs these 
computational tasks. Your solution must utilize gossip and be robust, efficient, and 
effective at solving the problem(s) at hand. Your application should be implemented 
using the Erlang distributed computing system. You should submit the file(s) of your 
implementation for this project. However, please make sure that you also provide a 
MAKEFILE for the TA to compile and test your code. Also you should submit a 
well-written technical report documenting, explaining, and justifying your 
application, problem, and design respectively. Your report should also include a 
thoughtful experimental analysis of the effectiveness and efficiency of your solution 
to the problem. You should conduct experiments with varying large number of nodes 
N, which are assigned to/instantiated at least two networked virtual machines. 
 
===Submission Procedure:=== 
 Due date: 11:59pm on Wednesday , 12/04/13 
 This is a group project 
 Write the names of each member of the group in the report. 
Submit the project, using pdf format for the report, and a zip file for your 
code, via e-mail to: nikbar1@umbc.edu